china's u22 is a robotic mission to the
dark side of the moon
launched on december 7th 2018. on
january 3rd
2019 it completes the first ever soft
landing on the lunar far side
it lands in the von carmen crater not
far from the moon's south pole
scientists are interested in this area
cold permanently shadowed craters at the
poles
contain water ice these ice patches are
uneven
and are likely to be ancient in the
south most of the water ice is
concentrated in craters
and at the north pole it spread more
sparsely
in any case this ice can be used once a
long-term
manned mission lands on the moon anyway
several days after u2 2 lands it closes
down its operating systems
and hibernates through its first lunar
night
it wakes up on january 29 2019
all its tools operate normally the rover
travels 390 feet
during its first full lunar day one
lunar day
lasts for about 14 days and a lunar
night has the same duration
moving and exploring during the day and
switching off during the night
becomes the rover's routine it's the
eighth lunar day
when u22 stumbles across something
incredible
this discovery makes the scientists put
off all
other plants for the mission they focus
on figuring out what the strange
material
found by the rover is in the beginning
this lunar day is no different from any
other it begins on july 25th
when the rover starts making its way
through an area pock marked with tiny
impact craters
u22 is helped and monitored by the
driver team from the beijing
aerospace control center on july 28th
the team is preparing to shut the rover
down for a
midday nap the sun is high in the sky
it means there are high levels of
radiation and scorching temperatures
that can damage the machine
before powering u22 down the scientists
are looking through the pictures taken
by the rover's main camera
that's when they spot it a small crater
filled with something that looks
shockingly different from the
surrounding landscape
unable to identify the gel-like
substance the team orders the rover
to check this bizarre finding u22
cautiously nears the crater to examine
the weirdly colored stuff
the machine uses special equipment that
detects the light reflected off the
substance
it's supposed to help the researchers to
understand the structure
of the material unfortunately the nature
of the unusually colored finding
has remained a mystery for over a year
no wonder that both the finding and the
fact that initially
there were no images of the enigmatic
stuff sparked curiosity
all over the world the only available
description of the substance
was that it looked like a randomly
colored shiny gel
something that's rather odd for the
dusty arid surface of the moon
but finally the mystery seems to have
been solved
the researchers have analyzed the
information received from the rover's
equipment
as expected the substance turned out to
be made up
of rock greenish and glistening breccia
in a sample no larger than 20 by 6
inches
it's kind of like a geologic version of
jello salad with fruit inside
if you melt it down it'll look glassy
breccia consists of sharp stones joined
together
by a chalky substance the sample found
on the far side of the moon
is made up of a mix of different
minerals the main
is a type of silicate that's one of the
most common components
in both the moon and earth's crust the
piece also contains some glass
which means it could have formed during
a volcanic eruption
but volcanic activity on the moon
stopped more than 3 billion years ago
that's why the researchers are almost
sure it's unlikely to be the source of
the unusual finding
the material could have been created by
a massive asteroid
comet or meteorite that once hit the
moon
during the collision the pressure and
temperature were so high
that huge amounts of rock instantly
melted
some pieces cooled down rapidly enough
to form glass
the rest gathered at the center of the
impact crater
and grew colder more slowly forming a
new rock
the substance was likely not formed in
the von carmen crater
but in the nearby finson and alder
craters
the hollow where the rover made its
finding was just seven feet across
whatever left it had to be no wider than
an inch
but then it would be too small to create
such a large piece of breccia
it's interesting that the material is
similar to the samples collected by the
astronauts from nasa's apollo missions
one of those samples was made of dark
broken shards of minerals
glued together it also contained some
black
shiny glass it's not clear though
whether it's the same as the stuff
discovered by u2 2. when the rover took
photos and made its measurements it was
rather dark in the area
the quality of the images isn't that
great
the experts also explained that the
mission is examining a previously
unexplored area of the moon that's why
they don't have any samples from that
region
to compare them with the greenish shiny
substance u22 found
but if their guesses turn out to be true
then the far
side of the moon might have more in
common with the earth-facing one
than we used to think but what's so
special about this
dark side of earth's natural satellite
and why can't we see it
it's all because of the phenomenon known
as tidal locking
earth's only natural satellite rotates
around its axis
once in 27 days it's the same amount of
time
it needs to go around our planet that's
why you always see the same face
to be precise 59 of the moon's surface
is visible to people
it means that you can catch glimpses of
the satellite's far
side at some times of the year the moon
side we can't see
is quite different from the one facing
earth it doesn't have dark spots that
are visible at night
those are lunar basaltic planes called
lunar maria
they were created by ancient volcanic
eruptions those happened about 3 to four
billion
years ago instead of planes the far
surface of the moon
has countless craters and tall mountains
one of the ideas about such a striking
difference between the two sides
is based on the collision theory it
claims
that billions of years ago earth
collided with another planet
or some other massive space body after
that
the debris from this collision crashed
with something that would later form our
moon
that's why the satellite's landscapes
differ so greatly
a more recent theory suggests that the
earth-facing part of the moon
is warmer because of the heat radiated
by our planet
during the period of volcanic eruptions
it was cooler
on the farther side that's why the
minerals there became solid faster
they formed a protective layer shielding
the moon's insides against the
meteorites
but each impact left an impressive
crater
at the same time a much softer crust on
the front-facing side of the moon
spewed lava every time a meteorite hit
it
after this lava cooled down it covered
the impact craters
even though the far side is often called
dark both sides get almost the same
amount of sunlight
the side we see looks a bit brighter
because of the glow coming from earth
there are two reasons why people are
interested in exploring the far
side of the moon after leaving our
planet
many radio waves get blocked by earth's
natural satellite
if astronomers could build their radio
and optical telescopes on the dark side
they would get much more data there
would be no problems with any kind of
interference
the telescopes would also be shielded
from the glare of daylight coming from
our planet
if telescopes were set up inside craters
they would also be protected from solar
radiation
astronomers would be able to get an
incredibly clear view of the far regions
of the universe
plus scientists believe there are great
amounts of helium-3
on the opposite side of the moon earth
is protected from solar winds
that carry this gas by its magnetic
field
but our natural satellite doesn't have
such a shield
that's why experts believe the moon can
be a perfect place
for helium-3 mining this rare element
can be later used as the fuel for fusion
reactors